🇵🇱 Poland (Lwów, Galicia)

Zvi Ehrman (1903–1993)

Country of Origin: Poland (Lwów, Galicia)

Status: Prisoner of the Lwów Ghetto and Holocaust Survivor

Biography

Zvi Ehrman was born in 1903 in Lwów, Galicia, into a traditional Jewish family. He received his early education in a German elementary school. During World War I, in 1914, his family fled to Vienna, where he continued his secondary education. In 1920, Ehrman returned to Lwów and enrolled in the Institute of Applied Arts.

In 1927, he was admitted to the Academy of Fine Arts in Kraków, where he studied painting, graphic arts, and stage design. Ehrman served on the board of the Jewish Artists’ Association and was also a member of the Association of Polish Artists. In 1934, he participated in the First General Art Exhibition of Poland and held a solo exhibition in Katowice.

Holocaust and the Journey to Israel

Following the Nazi occupation of Lwów, Ehrman was imprisoned in the Lwów Ghetto. In 1942, he escaped to the Caucasus, where he worked as a stage designer for a local theater.

After the war, he returned to Poland and continued his work as a theatrical designer at the Municipal Theater of Poznań. In 1947, Ehrman set sail for Eretz Israel aboard the immigrant ship Theodor Herzl. The vessel was intercepted by the British authorities, and he was sent to a displaced persons camp in Cyprus. There he taught in an art seminar organized by the sculptor Ze’ev Ben-Zvi.

After arriving in Israel, Ehrman worked as an architect for the housing companies Amidar and Shikun u'Pituach. In 1966, he joined the Artists’ Quarter in Safed, where he lived and worked for many years.

Artistic Style and Subject Matter

Ehrman’s artistic language was shaped by European Modernism and by his extensive experience in theater. Combining the skills of a painter, graphic artist, and stage designer, he paid particular attention to composition, space, and visual expression.

A special place in his work is occupied by landscapes, city views, and scenes from Israeli life. After settling in Safed, he created numerous works devoted to the Galilee, the old city of Safed, and Middle Eastern themes. His paintings are characterized by strong composition, decorative qualities, and a sensitive sense of atmosphere.

Collections

Works by Zvi Ehrman are represented in museum and private collections in Israel and abroad. His paintings continue to appear in exhibitions and auctions dedicated to twentieth-century Israeli art.